bvarForecast
============

Purpose
-------
Generate posterior predictive forecasts with credible bands from a fitted Bayesian VAR model.

Format
------

.. function:: fc = bvarForecast(result, h)
              fc = bvarForecast(result, h, xreg=X_future)
              fc = bvarForecast(result, h, level=0.90)

   :param result: an instance of a :class:`bvarResult` structure returned by :func:`bvarFit`.
   :type result: struct

   :param h: forecast horizon (number of steps ahead).
   :type h: scalar

   :param xreg: Optional keyword, future values of exogenous regressors. Required if the model was fit with *xreg*.
   :type xreg: hxK matrix

   :param level: Optional keyword, credible level for prediction bands. Default = 0.68.
   :type level: scalar

   :param quiet: Optional keyword, set to 1 to suppress printed output. Default = 0.
   :type quiet: scalar

   :return fc: An instance of a :class:`forecastResult` structure containing:

       .. include:: include/forecastresult.rst

   :rtype fc: struct

Examples
--------

Default BVAR Forecast (68% Credible Bands)
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

::

    new;
    library timeseries;

    fname = getGAUSSHome("pkgs/timeseries/examples/data/us_macro_quarterly.csv");
    data = loadd(fname);

    // Estimate and forecast
    result = bvarFit(data, quiet=1);

    fc = bvarForecast(result, 12);

Forecast with 90% Credible Bands
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

::

    new;
    library timeseries;

    fname = getGAUSSHome("pkgs/timeseries/examples/data/us_macro_quarterly.csv");
    data = loadd(fname);
    result = bvarFit(data, quiet=1);

    fc = bvarForecast(result, 12, level=0.90);

Optimal Hyperparameters to Forecast Pipeline
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

::

    new;
    library timeseries;

    fname = getGAUSSHome("pkgs/timeseries/examples/data/us_macro_quarterly.csv");
    data = loadd(fname);

    // Optimize hyperparameters
    ho = bvarHyperopt(data);

    // Estimate with optimal lambdas
    result = bvarFit(data, ho.ctl, quiet=1);

    // Forecast
    fc = bvarForecast(result, 24);

Compare Forecasts Across Lag Orders
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

::

    new;
    library timeseries;

    fname = getGAUSSHome("pkgs/timeseries/examples/data/us_macro_quarterly.csv");
    data = loadd(fname);

    ctl = bvarControlCreate();

    ctl.p = 2;
    r2 = bvarFit(data, ctl, quiet=1);

    ctl.p = 4;
    r4 = bvarFit(data, ctl, quiet=1);

    fc2 = bvarForecast(r2, 12, quiet=1);
    fc4 = bvarForecast(r4, 12, quiet=1);

    print "GDP forecast (p=2):" fc2.forecasts[., 1];
    print "GDP forecast (p=4):" fc4.forecasts[., 1];

Remarks
-------

**Posterior predictive distribution:**
For each posterior draw :math:`(B^{(i)}, \Sigma^{(i)})`, the function simulates
an h-step forecast path by iterating the VAR forward with innovations drawn
from :math:`N(0, \Sigma^{(i)})`. The reported *fc.forecasts* is the median of
the resulting predictive distribution. The *fc.lower* and *fc.upper* bands are
quantiles at ``(1-level)/2`` and ``(1+level)/2``.

**68% vs 95% bands:**
The default credible level of 0.68 corresponds to approximately :math:`\pm 1`
posterior standard deviation and is the convention in macroeconomic BVAR
applications. For publication or comparison with frequentist intervals, use
``level=0.90`` or ``level=0.95``.

**Conjugate vs Gibbs:**
For models fit with ``prior="minnesota"`` (conjugate), exact posterior draws are
used. For ``prior="flat"`` (Gibbs), the retained MCMC draws are used. In both
cases, the number of forecast draws equals *result.n_draws*.

Model
-----

For each posterior draw :math:`(B^{(s)}, \Sigma^{(s)})`, the h-step forecast path is
generated by iterating the VAR forward:

.. math::

   \hat{y}_{T+h}^{(s)} = \hat{B}_1^{(s)} \hat{y}_{T+h-1}^{(s)} + \cdots + \hat{B}_p^{(s)} \hat{y}_{T+h-p}^{(s)} + \hat{u}^{(s)} + \varepsilon_{T+h}^{(s)}

where :math:`\varepsilon_{T+h}^{(s)} \sim N(0, \Sigma^{(s)})`. The reported point
forecast is the median across all draws; the credible bands are posterior quantiles.

This integrates over both **parameter uncertainty** (different :math:`B, \Sigma` draws)
and **innovation uncertainty** (random :math:`\varepsilon`), giving a proper Bayesian
predictive density.

Algorithm
---------

1. For each of the *n_draws* posterior draws :math:`(B^{(s)}, \Sigma^{(s)})`:

   a. Draw :math:`\varepsilon_{T+1}^{(s)}, \ldots, \varepsilon_{T+h}^{(s)} \sim N(0, \Sigma^{(s)})`.
   b. Iterate the VAR forward using past data and previously generated forecasts.

2. Compute the median and quantiles of :math:`\{\hat{y}_{T+h}^{(s)}\}_{s=1}^{n\_draws}` at each horizon.

**Complexity:** :math:`O(n\_draws \cdot h \cdot m^2 p)`. Sub-second for typical configurations.

Troubleshooting
---------------

**Forecast bands are too wide:**
Tighten the prior (reduce *lambda1* in :func:`bvarFit`) or add sum-of-coefficients
priors (*lambda6* > 0). Wide bands often reflect parameter uncertainty in an
over-parameterized model.

**Forecasts revert to zero immediately:**
Check that *ar* is set correctly. With ``ar = 0`` (white noise prior), the BVAR
pulls forecasts toward zero. For levels data, use ``ar = 1``.

**Forecasts explode:**
The posterior mean may be non-stationary. Check *result.is_stationary*. Add
regularization via sum-of-coefficients (*lambda6*) or single-unit-root (*lambda7*)
priors in :func:`bvarFit`.

Verification
------------

BVAR forecasts verified against R ``BVAR::predict()`` and ECB BEAR ``BEARmain()``
forecast output. Point forecasts agree within Monte Carlo noise (different RNG streams).
Prediction interval widths match R within 5% relative error.

See the :ref:`var-verification` page.

References
----------

- Banbura, M., D. Giannone, and L. Reichlin (2010). "Large Bayesian vector auto regressions." *Journal of Applied Econometrics*, 25(1), 71-92.
- Kadiyala, K.R. and S. Karlsson (1997). "Numerical methods for estimation and inference in Bayesian VAR-models." *Journal of Applied Econometrics*, 12(2), 99-132.

Library
-------
timeseries

Source
------
forecast.src

.. seealso:: Functions :func:`bvarFit`, :func:`varForecast`, :func:`bvarSvForecast`, :func:`condForecast`, :func:`fcScore`, :func:`dmTest`
