=========
simarmamt
=========

10.0.51simarmamt
================

Purpose
-------
Simulate ARMA time series process.

Library
-------
tsmt

Format
------
y = simarmamt( b, p, q, const, trend, n, k, std, seed );

Input
-----
+-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
   | b     | (p + q)x1 vector, coefficient values for theoretical ARMA   |
   |       | process.                                                    |
   +-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
   | p     | scalar, number of moving average (MA) parameters.           |
   +-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
   | q     | scalar, number of autoregressive (AR) parameters.           |
   +-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
   | const | scalar, if a constant, or NxM matrix, if constant includes  |
   |       | time trends or constants with structural breaks.            |
   +-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
   | trend | scalar, trend parameter or 0 for no trend.                  |
   +-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
   | n     | scalar, the number of observations to generate.             |
   +-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
   | k     | scalar, the number of replications to generate.             |
   +-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
   | std   | scalar, the standard deviation of the error process.        |
   +-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
   | seed  | scalar, the value of the seed for the random number stream. |
   +-------+-------------------------------------------------------------+

Output
------
+---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+
   | y | NxK matrix, simulated ARMA process. Each column represents an   |
   |   | independent realization of a univariate time series.            |
   +---+-----------------------------------------------------------------+

Remarks
-------
simarmamt only simulates times series which are generated by normally
   distributed errors.

   If your simulation is large or if your available memory is limited,
   make several calls to simarmamt during a simulation. Keep in mind
   that there is some overhead computing the starting values with the
   desired multivariate distribution.

   If the process you are simulating lies on or near a boundary, try
   generating a longer time series, then trim the beginning
   observations. In general, simarmamt should give reasonable results
   since the starting values are normalized to have required
   multivariate normal distribution.

Example
-------
::

new;
cls;
library tsmt;

//Simulate arima data
seed = 423458;

//Coefficients
b = { .6, -.3, -.5 };

//AR terms
p = 2;

//MA terms
q = 1;

//Constant
const = 2;

//Trend
trend = 0;

//Number of observations
n = 100;

//Number of replications
k = 1;

//Stanadard deviation of error process
std = 0.5;

//Generate data
y = simarmamt( b, p, q, const, trend, n, k, std, seed );

Source
------
simarmamt.src
